CPANPLUS::Hacking(3pm) Perl Programmers Reference Guide CPANPLUS::Hacking(3pm)



NAME
       CPANPLUS::Hacking

DESCRIPTION
       This document attempts to describe how to develop with the CPANPLUS
       environment most easily, how certain things work and why.

       This is basically a quick-start guide to people who want to add
       features or patches to CPANPLUS.

OBTAINING CPANPLUS
       Checkout CPANPLUS from its Subversion repository at
       <http://oss.dwim.org/cpanplus-devel> .

INSTALLING CPANPLUS
       CPANPLUS follows the standard perl module installation process:

	   perl Makefile.PL
	   make
	   make test
	   make install

CONFIGURING CPANPLUS
       When running "perl Makefile.PL" you will be prompted to configure.  If
       you have already done so, and merely wish to update the "Makefile",
       simply run:

	   perl Makefile.PL JFDI=1

       This will keep your configuration intact. Note however, if there are
       changes to the default configuration file "Config.pm-orig", you should
       either delete your current config file and reconfigure, or patch your
       config file from the new entries in "Config.pm-orig".

RUNNING CPANPLUS FROM DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT
       If you'd rather not install the development version to your "site_perl"
       directory, that's no problem. You can set your "PERL5LIB" environment
       variable to CPANPLUS' "lib" directory, and you can run it from there.

RUNNING CPANPLUS TESTS
       Tests are what tells us if CPANPLUS is working. If a test is not
       working, try to run it explicilty like this:

	   perl -I/path/to/cpanplus/lib t/XX_name_of_test.t 1

       The extra '1' makes sure that all the messages and errors (they might
       be errors we're testing for!) are being printed rather than kept quiet.
       This is a great way to find out the context of any failures that may
       occur.

       If you believe this test failure proves a bug in CPANPLUS, the long
       output of the test file is something we'd like to see alongside your
       bug report.

FINDING BUGS
       Sometimes you might find bugs in CPANPLUS' behaviour. If you encounter
       these in a development snapshot, we'd appreciate a complete patch (as
       described below in the "SENDING PATCHES" section.

       If it's way over your head, then of course reporting the bug is always
       better than not reporting it at all. Before you do so though, make sure
       you have the latest development snapshot, and the bug still persists
       there. If so, report the bug to this address:

	   cpanplus-devel@lists.sourceforge.net

       A good "patch" would have the following characteristics:

       Problem description
	   Describe clearly what the bug is you found, and what it should have
	   done instead.

       Program demonstrating the bug
	   Show us how to reproduce the bug, in a simple of a program as
	   possible

       [OPTIONAL] A patch to the test suite to test for the bug
	   Amend our test suite by making sure this bug will be found in this,
	   and future versions of CPANPLUS (see "SUPPLYING PATCHES")

       [OPTIONAL] A patch to the code + tests + documentation
	   Fix the bug, update the docs & tests. That way your bug will be
	   gone forever :)

SUPPLYING PATCHES
       Patches are a good thing, and they are welcome. Especially if they fix
       bugs you've found along the way, or that others have reported.

       We prefer patches in the following format:

       o   In "diff -u" or "diff -c" format

       o   From the root of the snapshot

       o   Including patches for code + tests + docs

       o   Sent per mail to cpanplus-devel@lists.sourceforge.net

       o   With subject containing "[PATCH]" + description of the patch

       You will always be informed if a patch is applied or rejected, and in
       case of rejection why that is (perhaps you can tweak the patch to have
       it accepted after all).



perl v5.10.1			  2009-07-07		CPANPLUS::Hacking(3pm)
