CVUPDATEFS(1)							 CVUPDATEFS(1)



NAME
       cvupdatefs - Commit a Xsan Volume configuration change

SYNOPSIS
       cvupdatefs [ -bdfFhlnSv ] [ -c < pathname > ] [

       -O < ofilename > ] [ -R < NewFsName > ] [ FsName ] [ FsPath ]


DESCRIPTION
       The  cvupdatefs	program  is used to commit a configuration change to a
       Xsan volume. Possible configuration changes include storage  pool  list
       modification as well as file system journal modification.

       The file system update program must be run on the machine that the File
       System Manager (FSM) is running on. This utility reads  the  configura-
       tion  file  and compares the configuration file against the current on-
       disk metadata configuration. If there are differences between the  con-
       figuration  and	the  on-disk  metadata,  the utility will display what
       changes need to be made to bring the volume metadata up to date.

       NOTE: All metadata modification must be made on a stopped volume. It is
       recommended  that  the  volume  is  stopped  and cvfsck(1) has been run
       before making any changes to a  volume  configuration.	Maintaining  a
       backup  of the original volume configuration file is also strongly rec-
       ommended.


USAGE
       -b     Build info - log the build information.

       -c <pathname>
	      Provide a specific path to the previous configuration file  that
	      is to be used.  This option is used to force cvfsck to be run as
	      a sub-process to insure that the volume meta data is  consistent
	      prior to doing a capacity or bandwidth expansion, or any journal
	      changes.

       -C     Like the -c option, but also instructs cvfsck to check the  file
	      system  for  name collisions that would occur on a case-insensi-
	      tive file system.

       -d     Debug - use to turn on internal debugging only.

       -F     Force - do not prompt for confirmation  before  making  changes.
	      WARNING:	Errors	in the configuration file may cause unintended
	      results.

       -f     Failure mode - do not fail if there is a configuration mismatch.
	      Note:  This option is not intended for general use.  Use only if
	      instructed by Apple support.  Incorrect use  may	result	in  an
	      unusable file system.


       -h     Help - print the synopsis for this command.


       -l     Log - log when the update finished.

       -n     Read-only - set metadata to read-only mode.

       -O <path to original configuration file>
	      Overwrite - This option is required if the configuration changes
	      that will be applied will trigger an overwrite  of  an  existing
	      storage  pool.  This option should be used with extreme caution.
	      Errors in the configuration file could lead to  data  loss.  See
	      the CORRECTING MISCONFIGURED STORAGE POOLS section.

       -R <NewFsName>
	      Rename  -  Provide  a new file system name to rename an existing
	      file system.  The existing config file will be renamed, and  the
	      existing	data directory containing logs will be migrated to the
	      new name.  Note:	This option is not intended for  general  use.
	      Use  only  if  instructed  by  Apple support.  Incorrect use may
	      result in an unusable file system.


       -S     Status  -  write	status	 plist	 to   /var/run/cvupdatefs_sta-
	      tus_<FS>.plist.

       -v     Verbose - turn on verbose reporting methods.


       Once  the  volume  configuration has been changed to reflect the stripe
       group or journal changes the cvupdatefs utility may be run.  When cvup-
       datefs  is run it will display a listing of storage pools which will be
       modified, followed by a prompt. If this list  accurately  reflects  the
       changes	made  to  the  configuration  file then answering 'yes' at the
       prompt will allow the utility to make the needed changes.

       Once the utility has completed, the volume may be started again.  After
       starting  the  volume,  the 'show' command in cvadmin(1) may be used to
       verify the new storage pools.  The 'show' command will list all of  the
       stripe  groups  on  the	volume,  including  the  newly created storage
       pool(s). Also, if the location of the volume journal has  changed  this
       too will be reflected by the cvadmin command 'show'.


WARNINGS
       It  is  very  important	that  the consistency of the volume be correct
       before cvupdatefs is run. If the volume	has  a	bad  state  cvupdatefs
       could  introduce data corruption. It is recommended that cvfsck is exe-
       cuted on the file system before any changes are made.  If  cvfsck  does
       not  finish  with  a  clean  file  system do not make any configuration
       changes until the volume is clean.


ADDING A STORAGE POOL
       The first step in adding storage pools is to modify the	volume's  con-
       figuration  file  to  reflect  the desired changes. For notes on volume
       configuration format refer to snfs_config(5).  In  addition  to	adding
       StripeGroup configuration entries, associated Disk and DiskType entries
       for any new disks must be included.

       Currently the ordering of storage pools in the configuration  file  and
       in the metadata must match. Thus, when adding new storage pool configu-
       ration entries to the configuration file they must always be  added  to
       the end of the StripeGroup configuration section. cvupdatefs will abort
       if a new storage pool is detected anywhere but the end of the file.


INCREASING BANDWIDTH OF AN EXISTING STORAGE POOL
       Warning: This option is not recommended for  capacity  expansion.  This
       option is intended only for increasing I/O parallelism.

       Warning:  When a storage pool is populated with file data, adding band-
       width will increase fragmentation of the storage pool  proportional  to
       the  amount  of pre-existing file data.	It is important to avoid frag-
       mentation, which severely impacts performance and functionality of  the
       volume.	 The  cvupdatefs  utility  attempts  to  determine whether the
       requested bandwidth expansion  operation  will  introduce  unacceptably
       high fragmentation.  If the level is determined to be unacceptable then
       the request is rejected and cvupdatefs exits with status 2.  Therefore,
       it  is usually recommended to relocate pre-existing file data to a dif-
       ferent storage pool prior to performing bandwidth expansion.  If  band-
       width  expansion is performed without relocating pre-existing file data
       then it is recommended to utilize snfsdefrag (with the '-d' switch)  to
       correct fragmentation after completion of cvupdatefs.

       If  bandwidth  is  added to an existing storage pool the new disks must
       exactly match the existing disks in size. All new disks must  be  added
       to  the end in the disk list in the configuration file StripeGroup sec-
       tion.

       Bandwidth expansion can never be utilized for a storage pool containing
       metadata  or journal.  Since storage pool zero always contains metadata
       it is not possible to perform bandwidth expansion on storage pool zero.

       WARNING: Configuration errors may result in data loss.


MODIFYING FILE SYSTEM JOURNAL CONFIGURATION
       cvupdatefs  will  also  detect changes in the journal configuration and
       modify the metadata accordingly. Journal changes  include;  moving  the
       journal	to a new storage pool, increasing the size of the journal, and
       reducing the size of the journal.



       JournalSize
	      (Located in the Global section) Modifying this value will change
	      the size of the on-disk journal.

       Journal
	      (Located	in the Storage Pool section) Setting this entry to yes
	      will place the on-disk journal on the given storage pool.


CORRECTING MISCONFIGURED STORAGE POOLS
       cvupdatefs has a limited ability to address configuration  errors.  For
       example,  if  a storage pool was added but the configuration file shows
       incorrect disk sizes, this option could be used to rewrite that	stripe
       group.  Metadata  and  Journal  storage	pools cannot be rewritten.  In
       addition, data only storage pools  that	may  be  overwritten  must  be
       empty.

       The types of changes that can be made to a storage pool are as follows

	      1) Resize disk definitions in a storage pool
	      2) Modify stripe breadth in a storage pool
	      3) Modify the disk list in a storage pool

       When  making  changes  to  a  configuration file to fix a configuration
       issue, the original configuration file must be kept as well.  This file
       must  be passed in to cvupdatefs, using the -O option, so that the lay-
       out of the existing configuration can be checked.  The -O  argument  is
       necessary when attempting to overwrite an existing storage pool.

       Warning:  Always  use  this option with extreme caution.  Configuration
       errors could lead to data loss.


NOTE:
       There may only be one journal storage pool per volume.

EXIT VALUES
       cvupdatefs will return one of the following condition codes upon  exit.

	       0 - No error, no changes made to the file system
	       1 - No error, changes have been made to the file system
	       2 - Configuration or file system state error, no changes made
	       3 - ICB error, improper file system found, no changes made
	       4 - Case conversion found name collisions, no changes made


NOTES
       IMPORTANT:  It  is  highly recommended to run cvfsck(1) prior to making
       any configuration changes.



FILES
       /Library/Preferences/Xsan/*.cfg

SEE ALSO
       snfs_config(5), cvfsck(1), cvadmin(1)



Xsan File System		 January 2010			 CVUPDATEFS(1)
