
IP6ADDRCTL(8)		  BSD System Manager's Manual		 IP6ADDRCTL(8)

NAME
     ip6addrctl -- configure address selection policy for IPv6 and IPv4

SYNOPSIS
     ip6addrctl [show]
     ip6addrctl add prefix precedence label
     ip6addrctl delete prefix
     ip6addrctl flush
     ip6addrctl install configfile

DESCRIPTION
     The ip6addrctl utility manages the policy table of source and destination
     address selection for outgoing IPv4 and IPv6 packets.  When ip6addrctl is
     invoked without an argument or with a single argument show, it prints the
     content of the policy table currently installed in the kernel.

     To modify the table, the following operations are available:

     add prefix precedence label
	     Add a policy entry.  The prefix argument is an IPv6 prefix, which
	     is a key for the entry.  An IPv4 prefix should be specified with
	     an IPv6 prefix using an IPv4-mapped IPv6 address.	The precedence
	     and label arguments are decimal numbers, which specify the prece-
	     dence and label values for the entry, respectively.  This opera-
	     tion should be performed without an existing entry for the pre-
	     fix.

     delete prefix
	     Delete a policy entry specified by prefix, which should be an
	     IPv6 prefix.  A corresponding entry for the prefix should have
	     already been installed.

     flush   Delete all existing policy entries in the kernel.

     install configfile
	     Install policy entries from a configuration file named
	     configfile.  The configuration file should contain a set of pol-
	     icy entries.  Each entry is specified in a single line which con-
	     tains an IPv6 prefix, a decimal precedence value, and a decimal
	     label value, separated with white space or tab characters.  In
	     the configuration file, lines beginning with the pound-sign (`#')
	     are comments and are ignored.

EXIT STATUS
     The ip6addrctl utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     Richard Draves, Default Address Selection for IPv6, RFC 3484.

HISTORY
     The ip6addrctl utility first appeared in the KAME IPv6 protocol stack
     kit.  The original command name was addrselect, but it was then renamed
     to the current one so that the name would describe its function well.

BSD			      September 25, 2001			   BSD
