MIME::Decoder::NBit(3)User Contributed Perl DocumentatioMIME::Decoder::NBit(3)



NAME
       MIME::Decoder::NBit - encode/decode a "7bit" or "8bit" stream

SYNOPSIS
       A generic decoder object; see MIME::Decoder for usage.

DESCRIPTION
       This is a MIME::Decoder subclass for the "7bit" and "8bit" content
       transfer encodings.  These are not "encodings" per se: rather, they are
       simply assertions of the content of the message.  From RFC-2045 Section
       6.2.:

	  Three transformations are currently defined: identity, the "quoted-
	  printable" encoding, and the "base64" encoding.  The domains are
	  "binary", "8bit" and "7bit".

	  The Content-Transfer-Encoding values "7bit", "8bit", and "binary" all
	  mean that the identity (i.e. NO) encoding transformation has been
	  performed.  As such, they serve simply as indicators of the domain of
	  the body data, and provide useful information about the sort of
	  encoding that might be needed for transmission in a given transport
	  system.

       In keeping with this: as of MIME-tools 4.x, this class does no
       modification of its input when encoding; all it does is attempt to
       detect violations of the 7bit/8bit assertion, and issue a warning (one
       per message) if any are found.

   Legal 7bit data
       RFC-2045 Section 2.7 defines legal "7bit" data:

	  "7bit data" refers to data that is all represented as relatively
	  short lines with 998 octets or less between CRLF line separation
	  sequences [RFC-821].	No octets with decimal values greater than 127
	  are allowed and neither are NULs (octets with decimal value 0).  CR
	  (decimal value 13) and LF (decimal value 10) octets only occur as
	  part of CRLF line separation sequences.

   Legal 8bit data
       RFC-2045 Section 2.8 defines legal "8bit" data:

	  "8bit data" refers to data that is all represented as relatively
	  short lines with 998 octets or less between CRLF line separation
	  sequences [RFC-821]), but octets with decimal values greater than 127
	  may be used.	As with "7bit data" CR and LF octets only occur as part
	  of CRLF line separation sequences and no NULs are allowed.

   How decoding is done
       The decoder does a line-by-line pass-through from input to output,
       leaving the data unchanged except that an end-of-line sequence of CRLF
       is converted to a newline "\n".	Given the line-oriented nature of 7bit
       and 8bit, this seems relatively sensible.

   How encoding is done
       The encoder does a line-by-line pass-through from input to output, and
       simply attempts to detect violations of the "7bit"/"8bit" domain.  The
       default action is to warn once per encoding if violations are detected;
       the warnings may be silenced with the QUIET configuration of
       MIME::Tools.

SEE ALSO
       MIME::Decoder

AUTHOR
       Eryq (eryq@zeegee.com), ZeeGee Software Inc (http://www.zeegee.com).

       All rights reserved.  This program is free software; you can
       redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.



perl v5.10.1			  2008-06-30		MIME::Decoder::NBit(3)
