MooseX::Role::ParameteUserdContributeMooseX::Role::Parameterized::Extending(3)



NAME
       MooseX::Role::Parameterized::Extending - extending
       MooseX::Role::Parameterized roles

DESCRIPTION
       There are heaps of useful modules in the "MooseX" namespace that you
       can use to make your roles more powerful. However, they do not always
       work out of the box with MooseX::Role::Parameterized, but it's fairly
       straight-forward to achieve the functionality you desire.

       MooseX::Role::Parameterized was designed to be as extensible as the
       rest of Moose, and as such it is possible to apply custom traits to
       both the parameterizable role or the ordinary roles they generate. In
       this example, we will look at applying the fake trait
       "MooseX::MagicRole" to a parameterizable role.

       First we need to define a new metaclass for our parameterizable role.

	   package MyApp::Meta::Role::Parameterizable;
	   use Moose;
	   extends 'MooseX::Role::Parameterized::Meta::Role::Parameterizable';
	   with 'MooseX::MagicRole';

       This is a class (observe that it uses Moose, not Moose::Role) which
       extends the class which governs parameterizable roles.
       MooseX::Role::Parameterized::Meta::Role::Parameterizable is the
       metaclass that packages using MooseX::Role::Parameterized receive by
       default.

       Note that the class we are extending,
       MooseX::Role::Parameterized::Meta::Role::Parameterizable, is entirely
       distinct from the similarly-named class which governs the ordinary
       roles that parameterized roles generate. An instance of
       MooseX::Role::Parameterized::Meta::Role::Parameterized represents a
       role with its parameters already bound.

       Now we can take advantage of our new subclass by specifying that we
       want to use "MyApp::Meta::Role::Parameterizable" as our metaclass when
       importing MooseX::Role::Parameterized:

	   package MyApp::Role;
	   use MooseX::Role::Parameterized -metaclass => 'MyApp::Meta::Role::Parameterizable';

	   role {
	       ...
	   }

       And there you go! "MyApp::Role" now has the "MooseX::MagicRole" trait
       applied.



perl v5.12.4			  201MooseX::Role::Parameterized::Extending(3)
