PPI::Document::NormaliUser3Contributed Perl DocumePPI::Document::Normalized(3)



NAME
       PPI::Document::Normalized - A normalized Perl Document

DESCRIPTION
       A "Normalized Document" object is the result of the normalization
       process contained in the PPI::Normal class. See the documentation for
       PPI::Normal for more information.

       The object contains a version stamp and function list for the version
       of PPI::Normal used to create it, and a processed and delinked
       PPI::Document object.

       Typically, the Document object will have been mangled by the
       normalization process in a way that would make it fatal to try to
       actually DO anything with it.

       Put simply, never use the Document object after normalization.  YOU
       HAVE BEEN WARNED!

       The object is designed the way it is to provide a bias towards false
       negatives. A comparison between two ::Normalized object will only
       return true if they were produced by the same version of PPI::Normal,
       with the same set of normalization functions (in the same order).

       You may get false negatives if you are caching objects across an
       upgrade.

       Please note that this is done for security purposes, as there are many
       cases in which low layer normalization is likely to be done as part of
       a code security process, and false positives could be highly dangerous.

METHODS
   new
       The "new" method is intended for use only by the PPI::Normal class, and
       to get ::Normalized objects, you are highly recommended to use either
       that module, or the "normalized" method of the PPI::Document object
       itself.

   version
       The "version" accessor returns the PPI::Normal version used to create
       the object.

   functions
       The "functions" accessor returns a reference to an array of the
       normalization functions (in order) that were called when creating the
       object.

   equal $Normalized
       The "equal" method is the primary comparison method, taking another
       PPI::Document::Normalized object, and checking for equivalence to it.

       The "==" operator is also overload to this method, so that you can do
       something like the following:

	 my $first  = PPI::Document->load('first.pl');
	 my $second = PPI::Document->load('second.pl');

	 if ( $first->normalized == $second->normalized ) {
	       print "The two documents are equivalent";
	 }

       Returns true if the normalized documents are equivalent, false if not,
       or "undef" if there is an error.

SUPPORT
       See the support section in the main module.

AUTHOR
       Adam Kennedy <adamk@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2005 - 2011 Adam Kennedy.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

       The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
       with this module.



perl v5.12.4			  2011-02-25	  PPI::Document::Normalized(3)
