PPI::Token::WhitespaceUser Contributed Perl DocumentaPPI::Token::Whitespace(3)



NAME
       PPI::Token::Whitespace - Tokens representing ordinary white space

INHERITANCE
	 PPI::Token::Whitespace
	 isa PPI::Token
	     isa PPI::Element

DESCRIPTION
       As a full "round-trip" parser, PPI records every last byte in a file
       and ensure that it is included in the PPI::Document object.

       This even includes whitespace. In fact, Perl documents are seen as
       "floating in a sea of whitespace", and thus any document will contain
       vast quantities of "PPI::Token::Whitespace" objects.

       For the most part, you shouldn't notice them. Or at least, you
       shouldn't have to notice them.

       This means doing things like consistently using the "S for significant"
       series of PPI::Node and PPI::Element methods to do things.

       If you want the nth child element, you should be using "schild" rather
       than "child", and likewise "snext_sibling", "sprevious_sibling", and so
       on and so forth.

METHODS
       Again, for the most part you should really not need to do anything very
       significant with whitespace.

       But there are a couple of convenience methods provided, beyond those
       provided by the parent PPI::Token and PPI::Element classes.

   null
       Because PPI sees documents as sitting on a sort of substrate made of
       whitespace, there are a couple of corner cases that get particularly
       nasty if they don't find whitespace in certain places.

       Imagine walking down the beach to go into the ocean, and then quite
       unexpectedly falling off the side of the planet. Well it's somewhat
       equivalent to that, including the whole screaming death bit.

       The "null" method is a convenience provided to get some internals out
       of some of these corner cases.

       Specifically it create a whitespace token that represents nothing, or
       at least the null string ''. It's a handy way to have some "whitespace"
       right where you need it, without having to have any actual characters.

   tidy
       "tidy" is a convenience method for removing unneeded whitespace.

       Specifically, it removes any whitespace from the end of a line.

       Note that this doesn't include POD, where you may well need to keep
       certain types of whitespace. The entire POD chunk lives in its own
       PPI::Token::Pod object.

SUPPORT
       See the support section in the main module.

AUTHOR
       Adam Kennedy <adamk@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2001 - 2011 Adam Kennedy.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the same terms as Perl itself.

       The full text of the license can be found in the LICENSE file included
       with this module.



perl v5.12.4			  2011-02-25	     PPI::Token::Whitespace(3)
