
TMUTIL(8)		  BSD System Manager's Manual		     TMUTIL(8)

NAME
     tmutil -- Time Machine utility

SYNOPSIS
     tmutil verb [options]

DESCRIPTION
     tmutil provides methods of controlling and interacting with Time Machine,
     as well as examining and manipulating Time Machine backups. Common abili-
     ties include restoring data from backups, editing exclusions, and compar-
     ing backups.

     Several, but not all, verbs require root privileges.

BACKUP STRUCTURE
     Throughout this manual, specific language is used to describe particular
     "realms" associated with Time Machine backups. It is important to under-
     stand this terminology to make effective use of tmutil and its manual.

     backup source
	     A volume currently being backed up by Time Machine.

     backup disk
	     The HFS+ volume that contains Time Machine backups.

     backup destination
	     In the case of a local destination, a synonym for backup disk.
	     For network destinations, this is the AFP share on which the
	     backup disk image resides.

     backup disk image (or backup image)
	     A sparsebundle that, when mounted, is the backing store for a
	     volume that is a backup disk.

     backup store
	     The top-level "Backups.backupdb" directory at the root of a
	     backup disk.

     machine directory
	     A directory inside a backup store that contains all the backups
	     for a particular computer. For local destinations, a backup store
	     can contain multiple machine directories, all for separate com-
	     puters.

     snapshot
	     A directory inside a machine directory that represents a single
	     initial or incremental backup of one computer. The word "snap-
	     shot", in most contexts, is a generic term and is not to be con-
	     fused with a "local Time Machine snapshot", which is simply a
	     snapshot stored locally on the computer.

     snapshot volume
	     A directory inside a snapshot that represents a single initial or
	     incremental backup of one backup source. E.g.,

	     /Volumes/Chronoton/Backups.backupdb/thermopy-
	     lae/2011-07-03-123456/Mac HD

VERBS
     Each verb is listed with its description and individual arguments.

     help [verb]
	     Print extended usage for a given verb. If no verb is provided,
	     print a list of verbs and usage summaries.

     enable
	     Turn on automatic backups. Requires root privileges.

     disable
	     Turn off automatic backups. Requires root privileges.

     enablelocal
	     Turn on local Time Machine snapshots. Requires root privileges.

     disablelocal
	     Turn off local Time Machine snapshots and trigger automatic
	     cleanup of accumulated local snapshot data. Requires root privi-
	     leges.

     snapshot
	     Create new local Time Machine snapshot.

     startbackup [-b | --block] [-r | --rotation] [-d | --destination dest_id]
	     Perform a standard backup. This is equivalent to choosing "Back
	     Up Now" from the Time Machine menu extra.

	     Options:
		 --block	  Wait (block) until the backup is finished
				  before exiting.
		 --rotation	  Allow automatic destination rotation during
				  the backup.
		 --destination	  Perform the backup to the destination corre-
				  sponding to the specified ID.

     stopbackup
	     Cancel a backup currently in progress.

     delete snapshot_path ...
	     Delete one or more snapshots in an arbitrary machine directory.
	     This verb can delete snapshots from backups that were not made
	     by, or are not claimed by, the current machine. Requires root
	     privileges.

     restore [-v] src ... dst
	     Restore the item src, which is inside a snapshot, to the location
	     dst. The dst argument mimics the destination path semantics of
	     the cp tool. You may provide multiple source paths to restore.
	     The last path argument must be a destination.

	     When using the restore verb, tmutil behaves largely like Finder.
	     Custom Time Machine metadata (extended security and other) will
	     be removed from the restored data, and other metadata will be
	     preserved.

	     Root privileges are not strictly required to perform restores,
	     but tmutil does no permissions preflighting to determine your
	     ability to restore src or its descendants. Therefore, depending
	     on what you're restoring, you may need root privileges to perform
	     the restore, and you should know this ahead of time. This is the
	     same behavior you would encounter with other copy tools such as
	     cp or ditto. When restoring with tmutil as root, ownership of the
	     restored items will match the state of the items in the backup.

     compare [-@esmugtdEX] [-D depth] [-I name] [snapshot_path | path1 path2]
	     Perform a backup diff.

	     If no arguments are provided, tmutil will compare the computer to
	     the latest snapshot. If a snapshot path is provided as the sole
	     argument, tmutil will compare the computer to the specified snap-
	     shot. If two path arguments are provided, tmutil will compare
	     those two items to each other.  tmutil will attempt to inform you
	     when you have asked it to do something that doesn't make sense or
	     isn't supported.

	     The compare verb allows you to specify what properties to com-
	     pare. If you specify no property options, it is assumed that you
	     want to compare a basic set of metadata. This default property
	     set is equivalent to the -smugt option set. Specifying any prop-
	     erty option overrides the default set.

	     Options:
		 -a    Compare all supported metadata.
		 -@    Compare extended attributes.
		 -e    Compare ACLs.
		 -s    Compare sizes.
		 -m    Compare file modes.
		 -u    Compare UIDs.
		 -g    Compare GIDs.
		 -t    Compare modification times.
		 -d    Compare file data forks.
		 -D    Limit traversal depth to depth levels from the begin-
		       ning of iteration.
		 -E    Don't take exclusions into account when comparing items
		       inside volumes.
		 -I    Ignore paths with a path component equal to name during
		       iteration. This may be specified multiple times.
		 -X    Print output in XML property list format.

     setdestination [-ap] arg
	     Configure a local HFS+ volume or AFP share as a backup destina-
	     tion. Requires root privileges.

	     When the -a option is provided, arg will be added to the list of
	     destinations. Time Machine will automatically choose a backup
	     destination from the list when performing backups. When the -a
	     option is not provided, the current list of destinations will be
	     replaced by arg.

	     If you wish to set an HFS+ volume as the backup destination, arg
	     should be the mount point of the volume in question. When setting
	     an AFP destination arg takes the form:

	     afp://user[:pass]@host/share

	     In the AFP case, the password component of the URL is optional;
	     you may instead specify the -p option to enter the password at a
	     non-echoing interactive prompt. This is of particular interest to
	     the security-conscious, as all arguments provided to a program
	     are visible by all users on the system via the ps tool.

     destinationinfo [-X]
	     Print information about destinations currently configured for use
	     with Time Machine. For each backup destination, the following
	     information may be displayed:

		 Name	       The volume label as shown in Finder.
		 Kind	       Whether the destination is locally attached
			       storage or a network device.
		 URL	       In the case of a network destination, the URL
			       used for Time Machine configuration.
		 Mount Point   If the volume is currently mounted, the path in
			       the file system at which it was mounted.
		 ID	       The unique identifier for the destination.

	     When more than one destination is configured, the most recent
	     backup destination will be marked with the > indicator.

	     When the -X option is provided, output will be printed in XML
	     property list format.

     removedestination identifier
	     Remove the destination with the specified unique identifier from
	     the Time Machine configuration. Requires root privileges.

	     To obtain the unique identifier for a destination, see
	     destinationinfo.

     addexclusion [-p] item ...
	     Configure an exclusion that tells Time Machine not to back up a
	     file, directory, or volume during future backups.

	     There are two kinds of user-configurable exclusions in Time
	     Machine. The first, which is the default behavior for the
	     addexclusion verb, is a location-independent ("sticky") exclusion
	     that follows a file or directory. When the file or directory is
	     moved, the exclusion goes with the item to the new location.
	     Additionally, when the item is copied, the copy retains the
	     exclusion.

	     The second kind of exclusion is what is known as a fixed-path
	     exclusion. In this scenario, you tell Time Machine that you want
	     a specific path to be excluded, agnostic of the item at that
	     path. If there is no file or directory at the specified path, the
	     exclusion has no effect; if the item previously at the path has
	     been moved or renamed, the item is not excluded, because it does
	     not currently reside at the excluded path. As a consequence of
	     these semantics, moving a file or directory to the path will
	     cause the item to be excluded--fixed-path exclusions are not
	     automatically cleaned up when items are moved or deleted and will
	     take effect again once an item exists at an excluded path.

	     The -p option sets a fixed-path exclusion as described above.
	     Requires root privileges.

	     Volume exclusions can be set with the addexclusion verb. The -p
	     option is ignored for volumes; exclusions set on volumes track
	     the volume regardless of volume name or mount path changes. Eras-
	     ing the volume will cause it to be included in future backups.
	     (See associatedisk.)  Requires root privileges.

     removeexclusion [-p] item ...
	     Configure Time Machine to back up a file, directory, or volume
	     during future backups. This verb follows the same usage, exclu-
	     sion style, and privilege semantics as addexclusion.

     isexcluded [-X] item ...
	     Determine if a file, directory, or volume are excluded from Time
	     Machine backups.

	     When the -X option is provided, output will be printed in XML
	     property list format.

	     # example output for an excluded item
	     thermopylae:~ thoth$ tmutil isexcluded /Users/admin/Desk-
	     top/foo.txt
	     [Excluded]      /Users/admin/Desktop/foo.txt

	     # example output for an item that is not excluded
	     thermopylae:~ thoth$ tmutil isexcluded /Users/admin/Desk-
	     top/bar.txt
	     [Included]      /Users/admin/Desktop/bar.txt

     inheritbackup {machine_directory | sparsebundle}
	     Claim a machine directory or sparsebundle for use by the current
	     machine. Requires root privileges.

	     Machine directories and sparsebundles are owned by one computer
	     at a time, and are tracked by unique identifiers rather than com-
	     puter name, host name, or ethernet address. The inheritbackup
	     verb reassigns the identity of the specified item, reconfiguring
	     it so the current host recognizes it during backups. When inher-
	     iting a sparsebundle, the machine directory within will also be
	     claimed.

	     Inheriting is typically only one step in the process of configur-
	     ing a backup for use by a machine. You may also need to use
	     setdestination, associatedisk, or both, depending on the situa-
	     tion.

	     One machine can own multiple machine directories and sparsebun-
	     dles, but it is ill-advised for them to reside in the same place.
	     In such a situation, which will be chosen during a backup is
	     undefined. As a result, inheritbackup will attempt to detect pos-
	     sible identity collisions before making changes.

     associatedisk [-a] mount_point snapshot_volume
	     Bind a snapshot volume directory to the specified local disk,
	     thereby reconfiguring the backup history. Requires root privi-
	     leges.

	     In Mac OS X, HFS+ volumes have a persistent UUID that is assigned
	     when the file system is created. Time Machine uses this identi-
	     fier to make an association between a source volume and a snap-
	     shot volume. Erasing the source volume creates a new file system
	     on the disk, and the previous UUID is not retained. The new UUID
	     causes the source volume -> snapshot volume assocation to be bro-
	     ken. If one were just erasing the volume and starting over, it
	     would likely be of no real consequence, and the new UUID would
	     not be a concern; when erasing a volume in order to clone another
	     volume to it, recreating the association may be desired.

	     A concrete example of when and how you would use associatedisk:

	     After having problems with a volume, you decide to erase it and
	     manually restore its contents from a Time Machine backup or copy
	     of another nature. (I.e., not via the Mac OS X installer's System
	     Restore feature or Migration Assistant.) On your next incremental
	     backup, the data will be copied anew, as though none of it had
	     been backed up before. Technically, it is true that the data has
	     not been backed up, given the new UUID. However, this is probably
	     not what you want Time Machine to do. You would then use
	     associatedisk to reconfigure the backup so it appears that this
	     volume has been backed up previously:

	     thermopylae:~ thoth$ sudo tmutil associatedisk [-a] "/Vol-
	     umes/MyNewStuffDisk" "/Volumes/Chronoton/Backups.backupdb/ther-
	     mopylae/Latest/MyStuff"

	     The result of the above command would associate the snapshot vol-
	     ume MyStuff in the specified snapshot with the source volume
	     MyNewStuffDisk. The snapshot volume would also be renamed to
	     match. The -a option tells associatedisk to find all snapshot
	     volumes in the same machine directory that match the identity of
	     MyStuff, and then perform the association on all of them.

     latestbackup
	     Print the path to the most recent snapshot for this computer.

     listbackups
	     Print paths for all of this computer's completed snapshots.

     machinedirectory
	     Print the path to the current machine directory for this com-
	     puter.

     calculatedrift machine_directory
	     Analyze the snapshots in a machine directory and determine the
	     amount of change between each. Averages are printed after all
	     snapshots have been analyzed. This may require root privileges,
	     depending on the contents of the machine directory.

     uniquesize path ...
	     Analyze the specified path and determine its unique size. The
	     figure reported by uniquesize represents things that only exist
	     in the specified path; things that are hard-linked in other
	     places are not tallied.

EXIT STATUS
     In most situations, tmutil exits 0 on success, >0 otherwise.

Mac OS X			31 January 2012 		      Mac OS X
